# Week 1 - Day 2 Summary

## Open API Specification
- Follow a **contract-first approach** by beginning with drafting the openapi specification to clearly define the api contracts upfront.
- Ensuring alignment across teams and drives consistent implementation and integration.
- Provide consumers (front-end developers / clients) with api documentation and mock data to get insights about the api's


## Microservices - API implementation
- Now that the api's are drafted, using open-source open-api generator plugin, required `api` and `model` classes can be generated by providing appropriate configurations.
- `<phase>` - should be generate-sources, since this phase is executed before compile phase and required classes should be available for compilation and build purposes.
- `<generatorName>` - spring - defines the target technology or framework for which code will be generated.
- `<apiPackage>` - path at which the target api classes needs to generated.
- `<modelPackage>` - path at which the target model classes needs to generated.
- `<configOptions.useJakartaEe>` - use Jakarta validation api instead of javax

## Centralised Dependency Management
- `elite-parent` - a wrapper module to spring-boot-starter-parent with additional benefits of centralised version management across elite microservices that would be created.
- Ensures consistent dependency versions across all modules avoiding version conflicts.
- Simplifies dependencies upgrade and maintenance - dependencies can be managed in one place.
- Encourage standarized way of managing build configurations (dependencyManagement, pluginManagement and Java versions)
- Certain set of dependencies are defaulted to support generated code using openapi generator plugin.
- Makes the overall project structure more maintainable and scalable, especially in multi-module setups.

## Config Server
- Provides a centralised configuration management solution for microservices.
- It allows all services to fetch their configuration from a single source of truth, typically a Git repository.
- Enables dynamic configuration updates without rebuilding or redeploying services.
- Improves consistency, traceability, and security of configuration by version-controlling property files.